# MELTr
For manual visualization of live music
This program allows the user to create trippy/psychedlic visuals that go along with music either playing out of a speaker, or being performed live. 



This was created out of the need for an open-source VJ (Visual Jockey) program as the current market only contains niche products, or hyper expensive multi-faceted ones.

## GOALS:
To create a VJ program the is resource efficient, easy to use, and highly customizable. 

## Getting Started 
The current configuration is as follows ny default:

Once the program starts a white window will appear, as well as a small window. The larger white window is the rendering surface which displays the graphics generated by the program. 
Once it does, Press the SPACE bar and it will toggle the draw thread. 


## CommandFrame
The CommandFrame is a seperate window launched by pressing SHIFT+ENTER after the main window appears
This window allows you to control the program via that window without keyboard input

NOTE: It is recommended that you either have a large screen, or a multi-monitor setup when using both the main window (GFrame) and the CommandFrame as both on the same screen can be unintuitive. 

Preferences/Configuration of CommandFrame is loaded from /res/custom_frame.txt
For more info about setting up a custom CommandFrame, refer to /about_custom_frame.txt

## Midi 
Meltr supports midi devices. In order to configure Midi input, edit the /res/midi.txt in the following format:

[CONTROLLER ID]   [TYPE]   [SUB_TYPE]   [OTHER]

So far, midi input supports modification of:

-Angle

-Scale

-Translation X

-Translation Y

-Context Control (Pattern Generation)

-Animation Speed

-Draw Opacity


## Spout Support
As per Reddit user [scootunit](  https://www.reddit.com/user/scootunit/) Spout support has been added
Credits to the code for Spout integration goes to [SpoutProcessing](https://github.com/leadedge/SpoutProcessing)

For Spout to properly display the contents of GFrame, maximize the tiny window the appears at program start.
Meltr *does not* act as a receiver, only a sender for Spout. 
